---
title: Glossary of Domain Centric Technical Terms
menu: Glossary of Terms
hidden: true
weight: 600
---

A list of technology used to describe various aspects of the Fluvio data streaming platform.

### DDD - Domain Driven Design

_<a href="https://domainlanguage.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/DDD_Reference_2015-03.pdf" target="_blank">Domain-Driven Design Reference</a>, by Eric Evans_

A _domain_ is the sphere of knowledge and activity around which the application logic revolves. _Domain-Driven Design (DDD)_ is an approach to developing software for complex needs by deeply connecting the implementation to an evolving model of the core business concepts.

Evans’ Domain-Driven Design further defines a few common terms that are useful when describing and discussing DDD practices:

* **Context**: The setting in which a word or statement appears that determines its meaning. Statements about a model can only be understood in a context.

* **Model**: A system of abstractions that describes selected aspects of a domain and can be used to solve problems related to that domain.

* **Ubiquitous Language**: A language structured around the domain model and used by all team members to connect all the activities of the team with the software.

* **Bounded Context**: A description of a boundary (typically a subsystem, or the work of a specific team) within which a particular model is defined and applicable.

DDD helps developers with techniques that minimize complexity and drive collaboration with other functional teams. Developers can map out the business processes into the model by using the same ubiquitous language that is used by the business itself.


### Domain Events

_<a href="http://codebetter.com/gregyoung/2010/04/11/what-is-a-domain-event/" target="_blank">What is a Domain Event?</a> by Greg Young_

An _event_ is something that has happened in the past - a **fact** or **state transition** that occurred in a domain that you want other parts of the system to be aware of.

All events should be represented as verbs in the past tense such as _CustomerRelocated_, _CargoShipped_, or _InventoryLossRecorded_.

Domain events help developers express explicitly the domain rules, based in the ubiquitous language provided by the domain experts. Events enable a better separation of concerns for various part of the system.


### Event Streams

_<a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2015/february/microsoft-azure-the-rise-of-event-stream-oriented-systems" target="_blank">The Rise of Event Stream Oriented Systems</a>, MSDN Magazine_

An _event stream_ is a constant flow of data events, with each containing information about an event (**fact** or **state transition**).
Events may be generated by connected cars, smart thermostats, game consoles, personal fitness devices, etc. Furthermore, in modern distributed architectures in companies such as LinkedIn, Twitter, Netflix, Uber and others, event streams are used to share state between system components.


### Event Sourcing

_<a href="https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventSourcing.html" target="_blank">Event Sourcing</a>, by Martin Fowler_

Event Sourcing ensures that all changes to application state are stored as a sequence of events. These events can be played back to _rebuild the state of the application_ at anytime in the past. Hence, event sourcing may be viewed as an implementation strategy for persisting application (aggregate) state.

When these events are exposed beyond the application boundary, they can be used for:

* **Audit Logs** - The event sourcing is - in essence - an audit log.
* **Temporal Queries** - Query changes on any of the fields along any time periods.
* **Troubleshooting** - Playback events to identify and fix business logic errors. Run multiple applications with different side effects side-by-side.
* **Machine Learning** - Playback events to train models or collect new data insights.
* **Future Proof** - Build applications gradually and apply to past events - you'll never worry about missing features again.

When building event driven systems, **event sourcing** becomes the **source of truth** of the application. The sequence of events can be used to rebuild application state, memory caches, or databases at any point in the past.


### Snapshots

_<a href="https://eventstore.com/docs/event-sourcing-basics/rolling-snapshots/index.html" target="_blank">Rolling Snapshots</a>, Eventstore.com_

Snapshots are useful when there are many events between the beginning of time and the current point. A large number of events would be inefficient to load. A **snapshot** is a memorized aggregate of all previous events to the current point. When applications rebuild their internal state, they can start from the snapshot instead of the start of the stream. 

Snapshots can always be discarded or re-created as needed, since they represent computed information from the event stream.


### CQRS - Command Query Responsibility Segregation

_<a href="http://codebetter.com/gregyoung/2010/02/13/cqrs-and-event-sourcing/" target="_blank">CQRS and Event Sourcing</a>, by Greg Young_

CQRS is an architectural pattern that separates _reading_ from _writing_ in a data store. The term is related to Command Query Separation (CQS), which was originally defined by Bertrand Meyer in his book <a href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0136291554?ie=UTF8&tag=martinfowlerc-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0136291554" target="_blank">Object Oriented Software Construction</a>. 

The basic idea is that you can divide a system's operations into two distinct concerns:

* **Commands** - change the state of a system.
* **Queries** - return a result and do not change the state of the system (they are free of side effects).

In general, reading data is 90% more frequent than writing. CQRS enables readers and writers to scale independently yielding a cleaner architecture. It should be noted that higher scalability also brings along complexity.


### Projections

... In progress
You can change a projection, you can only create a new projects.

### Materialized Views

... In progress
Compacted topic (where only the most recent value is shown). It represents the latest events without the history. Also referred to as in memory images.

### Aggregates

_<a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html" target="_blank">DDD Aggregate</a>, by Martin Fowler_

Aggregates are groups of domain objects that can be treated as a single unit. An aggregate boundary governs transactions and distribution. 

* **Inside boundary** - apply consistency rules synchronously
* **Across boundaries** - apply updates asynchronously

Pat Helland's document on [Data - Inside and Outside](#data---inside-and-outside) a detailed analysis on some of these distributed data challenges.


### CEP - Complex Event Processing

_<a href="https://complexevents.com/stanford/cep/" target="_blank">Complex Event Processing in Distributed Systems</a>, by David C. Luckham and Brian Frasca_

Complex Event Processing, or CEP, consists of a set of concepts and techniques developed in the early 1990s for processing real-time events and extracting information from event streams as they arrive. The goal of complex event processing is to identify meaningful events in real-time situations and respond to them as quickly as possible.

CEP has since become an enabling technology in many systems that are used to take immediate action in response to incoming streams of events. Applications are now to be found in many sectors of business including stock market trading systems, mobile devices, internet operations, fraud detection, the transportation industry, and governmental intelligence gathering.


### Data - Inside and Outside

_<a href="http://cidrdb.org/cidr2005/papers/P12.pdf" target="_blank">Data on the Outside versus Data on the Inside</a>, by Pat Helland_

... In progress

### SAGAs

... In progress

### Microservices

... In progress


### Other References

* _<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHGkaShoyNs" target="_blank">CQRS and Event Sourcing - YouTube</a>, by Greg Young_
* _<a href="https://udidahan.com/2009/12/09/clarified-cqrs/" target="_blank">Clarified CQRS</a>, by Udi Dahan_
* _<a href="https://cqrs.nu/Faq" target="_blank">DDD, CQRS, Even Sourcing - FAQs</a>, Edument_
* _<a href="https://dzone.com/articles/5-great-points-why-you-use-event-sourcing-1" target="_blank">5 Good Reasons to Use Event Sourcing</a>, DZone_