---
title: Core Capabilities 
---

The key tenets of this architecture are as follows

* [Data streaming]({{< ref "#data-streaming" >}})
* [Language native APIs]({{< ref "#language-native-apis" >}})
* [Ease of use]({{< ref "#ease-of-use" >}})

### Data Streaming

Data streaming is data that is **generated continuously** by any number of sources in many different formats. Your data might be:

* logs or traces generated by mobile or web applications
* sensors from industrial robots, drones, or farm equipment
* financial stock tickers
* online purchases
* in-game player activity
* telemetry from connected devices
* database events

and more.

Fluvio data streaming is designed for **horizontal scale**. Multiple data streams can concurrently ingest and replicate data for resiliency. Data is processed sequentially on a record-by-record basis in the order it was received, and it is stored in immutable streams. A user-configurable retention period controls the length of time the data is retained. The **retention period** can be anywhere from hours to years.

Fluvio producers can write to one or more data streams and consumers can read from any number of streams.

Fluvio data streaming is designed for _speed_, _scale_, _security_ and _resiliency_.


#### Speed

Fluvio is written in **Rust**, a programming language designed for _code safety_ and _performance_.  For instance, a <a href="https://medium.com/@dexterdarwich/comparison-between-java-go-and-rust-fdb21bd5fb7c" target="_blank">benchmark</a> comparison between Rust and Java on a simple web server implementation revealed that Rust outperforms Java in many areas:

| Performance Test        |   Java   |   Rust   | Improvement |
| ----------------------- | :------: | :------: | :---------: |
| **Latency** (Fibonacci) | 1,900 ms | 57.71 ms |  **~30x**   |
| **Memory**              | 1,498 MB | 16.94 MB |  **~80x**   |
| **Idle Memory**         |  162 MB  | 0.36 MB  |  **~450x**  |
| **CPU Utilization**     |   73%    |   24%    |   **~3x**   |
| **Program Size**        |  27 MB   |  3.7 MB  |   **~8x**   |

These values are derived from a simple web server implementation and can be significantly higher in large programs with many libraries and dependencies.

Fluvio also takes advantage of other Rust capabilities, such as:

* <a href="https://rust-lang.github.io/async-book/01_getting_started/02_why_async.html" target="_blank">Asynchronous Code</a> to scale out workloads effortlessly
* <a href="https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/04/10/Fearless-Concurrency.html" target="_blank">Fearless Concurrency</a> to leverage the CPU's full power
* <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-copy" target="_blank">Zero-copy</a> for fast I/O wherever possible

While other data streaming platforms use polling to consume messages, Fluvio uses *async processing* for significantly lower latency.


#### Scale

Fluvio is designed for **horizontal scale**, with multiple Streaming Processing Units being gradually dispatched to handle an increasing number of concurrent data streams.

Fluvio uses **partitioning** to divide data into smaller sub-streams for availability, fault tolerance and manageability. Each partition is an independent data streaming unit that can scale independently. Partitions are distributed evenly across Streaming Processing Units (SPUs) to ensure a balanced system. This architecture choice enables Fluvio clients to write-to or read-from multiple partitions simultaneously.

For additional information, check out the [Topic/Partition]({{< ref "/docs/concepts/partitions" >}}) section.


#### Security

Fluvio is designed with **security** and **privacy** in mind. Fluvio producers, consumers, and other clients must authenticate with a target Cloud cluster and download security certificates before they are authorized access. The platform uses the certificates with TLS to encrypt all communication between the clients and the cluster.


#### Resiliency

Fluvio is designed for **fault tolerance** and **high availability**. Data streams are replicated and can survive multiple points of failure. Failures may range from crash of a host machine to network outages, and more. Fluvio ensures that data streams remain available with minimal interruption for subsequent processing.

All system components have self-healing recovery mechanisms and automatic failover to increase resiliency and simplify usability. Fluvio has built-in eventual consistency to allow recovering SPUs to update their internal state and rejoin the cluster as fully functional units.

For additional information, check out the [Replica Election] section.

[Replica Election]: {{< ref "/docs/architecture/replica-election" >}}

### Language Native APIs

Fluvio is designed to integrate natively with most programming languages.  The following native interfaces are listed in order of priority:

* [Rust] &#10004;
* [Node.js] &#10004;
* [Python] &#10004;
* [Java] - &#10004;
* [Go] -  &#10004; - *Community Supported*
* Swift - *roadmap*


[Rust]: https://docs.rs/fluvio
[Node.js]: https://infinyon.github.io/fluvio-client-node/
[Python]: https://infinyon.github.io/fluvio-client-python/fluvio.html
[Java]: https://infinyon.github.io/fluvio-client-java/
[Go]: https://github.com/avinassh/fluvio-go

The APIs can be used to manage and operate all areas of the systems:

* clusters
* data streams
* consumer
* producers

Fluvio supports polyglot environments where App modules written in different programming languages use native interfaces to access data streams.


### Ease of Use

Fluvio is designed for **operational efficiency** and **ease of use**.

Built-in cluster management capabilities normalize and simplify all infrastructure operations. The platform can be installed just as easily on a laptop, a data center, or a public cloud. Integrated Kubernetes capabilities make Fluvio easy to install in any modern Enterprise environment.

Fluvio is designed for developers. The built-in installer helps you get up and running quickly. The profile-based configuration allows you to switch between different Fluvio installations with ease. Native language support gives you the flexibility to pick your programming language of choice - where data streaming APIs are managed through native code. Fluvio's developer-first approach eliminates complexity and minimizes the learning curve required to bootstrap and run a data streaming environment.

Fluvio uses declarative configurations instead of imperative commands to manage system resources such as topics and partitions. The declarative configuration approach lets the platform provision resources dynamically as they become available and self-heal from failures. Existing data streaming platforms return errors and leave all remediation tasks to the operator to resolve. When using Fluvio, operators give you the confidence to configure and walk away. You can trust that the platform will recover from errors and operate at optimal performance.

