---
title: Glossary of Domain Centric Technical Terms
menu: Glossary of Terms
toc: true
weight: 600
---

A list of technology used to describe various aspects of the Fluvio data streaming platform.

### DDD - Domain Driven Design

_<a href="https://domainlanguage.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/DDD_Reference_2015-03.pdf" target="_blank">Domain-Driven Design Reference</a>, by Eric Evans_

A _domain_ is the sphere of knowledge and activity around which the application logic revolves. _Domain-Driven Design (DDD)_ is an approach to developing software for complex needs by deeply connecting the implementation to an evolving model of the core business concepts.

Evans’ Domain-Driven Design further defines a few common terms that are useful when describing and discussing DDD practices:

* **Context**: The setting in which a word or statement appears that determines its meaning. Statements about a model can only be understood in a context.

* **Model**: A system of abstractions that describes selected aspects of a domain and can be used to solve problems related to that domain.

* **Ubiquitous Language**: A language structured around the domain model and used by all team members to connect all the activities of the team with the software.

* **Bounded Context**: A description of a boundary (typically a subsystem, or the work of a specific team) within which a particular model is defined and applicable.

DDD helps developers with techniques that minimize complexity and drive collaboration with other functional teams. Developers can map out the business processes into the model by using the same ubiquitous language that is used by the business itself.


### Domain Events

_<a href="http://codebetter.com/gregyoung/2010/04/11/what-is-a-domain-event/" target="_blank">What is a Domain Event?</a> by Greg Young_

An _event_ is something that has happened in the past - a **fact** or **state transition** that occurred in a domain that you want other parts of the system to be aware of.

All events should be represented as verbs in the past tense such as _CustomerRelocated_, _CargoShipped_, or _InventoryLossageRecorded_.

Domain events helps developers express explicitly the domain rules, based in the ubiquitous language provided by the domain experts. Events enable a better separation of concerns various part of the system.


### Event Streams
_<a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2015/february/microsoft-azure-the-rise-of-event-stream-oriented-systems" target="_blank">The Rise of Event Stream Oriented Systems</a>, MSDN Magazine_

An _event stream_ is a constant flow of data events, with each containing information about an event (**fact** or **state transition**).
Events may be generated by connected cars, smart thermostats, game consoles, personal fitness devices, etc. Furthermore, modern distributed architectures in companies such as LinkedIn, Twitter, Netflix, Uber and others, event streams are used to share state between system components.

### Event Sourcing

_<a href="https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventSourcing.html" target="_blank">Event Sourcing</a>, by Martin Fowler_

Event Sourcing ensures that all changes to application state are stored as a sequence of events. Each change to the state of an application is captured in an event, and that these events are themselves stored in an immutable sequence on the same timeline as the application state itself.

While an an event describes the current state of the application, event sourcing tells us _how we got there_.


### CQRS - Command Query Responsibility Segregation

CQRS means "Command-query responsibility segregation". We segregate the responsibility between commands (write requests) and queries (read requests). The write requests and the read requests are handled by different objects.


### Projections

You can change a projection, you can only create a new projects.


### Snapshots

_<a href="https://eventstore.com/docs/event-sourcing-basics/rolling-snapshots/index.html" target="_blank">Rolling Snapshots</a>, Eventstore.com_

Snapshots are useful when there is a large number of events between the beginning of time and the current point. A large number of events would be inefficient to load. A **snapshot** is a memorized aggregate of all previous events to the current point. When applications rebuild their internal state, they can start from the snapshot instead of the start of the stream. 

Snapshots can always be discarded or re-created as needed, since they represent computed information from the event stream.


### Aggregates

_<a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html" target="_blank">DDD Aggregate, by Martin Fowler</a>_

An aggregate is a group of domain objects that can be treated as a single unit. 

Use	the	same aggregate boundaries to govern transactions and distribution.

Transactions should not cross aggregate boundaries. Within an aggregate boundary, apply consistency rules synchronously. Across	 boundaries, handle updates asynchronously.


### CEP - Complex Event Processing

_<a href="https://complexevents.com/stanford/cep/" target="_blank">Complex Event Processing in Distributed Systems. by David C. Luckham and Brian Frasca</a>_

Complex Event Processing, or CEP, consists of a set of concepts and techniques developed in the early 1990s for processing real-time events and extracting information from event streams as they arrive. The goal of complex event processing is to identify meaningful events in real-time situations and respond to them as quickly as possible.

CEP has since become an enabling technology in many systems that are used to take immediate action in response to incoming streams of events. Applications are now to be found in many sectors of business including stock market trading systems, mobile devices, internet operations, fraud detection, the transportation industry, and governmental intelligence gathering.


### Data - Then and Now

_<a href="http://cidrdb.org/cidr2005/papers/P12.pdf" target="_blank">Data on the Outside versus Data on the Inside by Pat Helland</a>_

...

### Data Driven

Your are data-driven when the progress in an activity is compelled by data. Businesses asystematically and methodically use data instead of motions, external pressure, or instinct to power decisions.




### Event Storming

...

### Microservices

...

### CDC - Change Data Capture

Change Data Capture (CDC), a term found in databases, is a set of software design patterns used to determine and track the data that has changed so that action can be taken using the changed data.


### Other References

* _<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHGkaShoyNs" target="_blank">CQRS and Event Sourcing, by Greg Young</a>_
