embeds/cli/help/fluvio-consume.md, before:

```
Read messages from a topic/partition

Usage: fluvio consume [OPTIONS] <topic>

Arguments:
  <topic>  Topic name

Options:
  -p, --partition <integer>
          Partition id [default: 0]
  -A, --all-partitions
          Consume records from all partitions
  -d, --disable-continuous
          disable continuous processing of messages
      --disable-progressbar
          disable the progress bar and wait spinner
  -k, --key-value
          Print records in "[key] value" format, with "[null]" for no key
  -F, --format <FORMAT>
          Provide a template string to print records with a custom format. See --help for details
      --table-format <TABLE_FORMAT>
          Consume records using the formatting rules defined by TableFormat name
  -B [<integer>]
          Consume records starting X from the beginning of the log (default: 0)
  -o, --offset <integer>
          The offset of the first record to begin consuming from
  -T, --tail [<integer>]
          Consume records starting X from the end of the log (default: 10)
      --end-offset <integer>
          Consume records until end offset
  -b, --maxbytes <integer>
          Maximum number of bytes to be retrieved
      --suppress-unknown
          Suppress items items that have an unknown output type
  -O, --output <type>
          Output [possible values: dynamic, text, binary, json, raw, table, full-table]
      --smartmodule <SMARTMODULE>
          name of the smart module
      --smartmodule-path <SMARTMODULE_PATH>
          
      --aggregate-initial <AGGREGATE_INITIAL>
          (Optional) Path to a file to use as an initial accumulator value with --aggregate
  -e, --params <PARAMS>
          (Optional) Extra input parameters passed to the smartmodule module. They should be passed using key=value format Eg. fluvio consume topic-name --filter filter.wasm -e foo=bar -e key=value -e one=1
      --isolation <ISOLATION>
          Isolation level that consumer must respect. Supported values: read_committed (ReadCommitted) - consume only committed records, read_uncommitted (ReadUncommitted) - consume all records accepted by leader
  -h, --help
          Print help information (use `--help` for more detail)
```

Commit message:

Add This week in Fluvio 49 (#472)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/344960/204720848-a43b83d5-668c-4f01-be3e-4741339ecb8b.png)

embeds/cli/help/fluvio-consume.md, after:

```
Read messages from a topic/partition

Usage: fluvio consume [OPTIONS] <topic>

Arguments:
  <topic>  Topic name

Options:
  -p, --partition <integer>
          Partition id [default: 0]
  -A, --all-partitions
          Consume records from all partitions
  -d, --disable-continuous
          Disable continuous processing of messages
      --disable-progressbar
          Disable the progress bar and wait spinner
  -k, --key-value
          Print records in "[key] value" format, with "[null]" for no key
  -F, --format <FORMAT>
          Provide a template string to print records with a custom format. See --help for details
      --table-format <TABLE_FORMAT>
          Consume records using the formatting rules defined by TableFormat name
  -B, --beginning
          Consume records from the beginning of the log
  -H, --head <integer>
          Consume records starting <integer> from the beginning of the log
  -T, --tail <integer>
          Consume records starting <integer> from the end of the log
      --start <integer>
          The absolute offset of the first record to begin consuming from
      --end <integer>
          Consume records until end offset (inclusive)
  -b, --maxbytes <integer>
          Maximum number of bytes to be retrieved
      --suppress-unknown
          Suppress items items that have an unknown output type
  -O, --output <type>
          Output [possible values: dynamic, text, binary, json, raw, table, full-table]
      --smartmodule <SMARTMODULE>
          Name of the smart module
      --smartmodule-path <SMARTMODULE_PATH>
          Path to the stmart module
      --aggregate-initial <AGGREGATE_INITIAL>
          (Optional) Path to a file to use as an initial accumulator value with --aggregate
  -e, --params <PARAMS>
          (Optional) Extra input parameters passed to the smartmodule module. They should be passed using key=value format Eg. fluvio consume topic-name --filter filter.wasm -e foo=bar -e key=value -e one=1
      --isolation <ISOLATION>
          Isolation level that consumer must respect. Supported values: read_committed (ReadCommitted) - consume only committed records, read_uncommitted (ReadUncommitted) - consume all records accepted by leader
      --transforms-file <TRANSFORMS_FILE>
          (Optional) Path to a file with transformation specification
  -t, --transform <TRANSFORM>
          (Optional) Transformation specification as JSON formatted string. E.g. fluvio consume topic-name --transform='{"uses":"infinyon/jolt@0.1.0","with":{"spec":"[{\"operation\":\"default\",\"spec\":{\"source\":\"test\"}}]"}}'
  -h, --help
          Print help information (use `--help` for more detail)
```
