content/connectors/cdk/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview 
weight: 10
---

### Intro

Fluvio Connector Development Kit (CDK) is a command-line tool whose primary goal is to help developers build, test, deploy Connectors, and publish them to the Hub. CDK only supports connectors developed in the Rust programming language. Other languages will be added in future releases.


### Requirements

Install Rust compiler and Cargo. See [https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) for installation instructions.


### Steps

CDK provides a set of commands to help developers build, test, and publish Connector:

1. [Generate a Connector]({{< ref "generate" >}})
2. [Build and Test]({{< ref "build-test" >}})
3. [Start and Shutdown]({{< ref "start-shutdown" >}})
4. [Troubleshooting]({{< ref "troubleshooting" >}})
5. [Secrets]({{< ref "secrets" >}})
6. [Publish to Connector Hub]({{< ref "publish" >}})
7. [Use Examples in Github]({{< ref "github-examples" >}})


### References

* [CDK Source code]


[CDK Source code]: https://github.com/infinyon/fluvio/tree/master/crates/cdk

Commit message:

add: cdk requirements notes
from https://github.com/infinyon/mqtt-connector/issues/74

content/connectors/cdk/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
weight: 10
---

### Intro

Fluvio Connector Development Kit (CDK) is a command-line tool whose primary goal is to help developers build, test, deploy Connectors, and publish them to the Hub. CDK only supports connectors developed in the Rust programming language. Other languages will be added in future releases.


### Requirements

Install Rust compiler and Cargo. See [https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) for installation instructions.

You can run and test CDK connectors with downloaded connectors from the hub, but
if you want to build connectors, the rust compiler should have the `wasm` target
installed.

After installing the standard rust toolchain, add the musl toolchain:

```
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
```

Some Linux distributions will also require adding a musl compiler package.

### Steps

CDK provides a set of commands to help developers build, test, and publish Connector:

1. [Generate a Connector]({{< ref "generate" >}})
2. [Build and Test]({{< ref "build-test" >}})
3. [Start and Shutdown]({{< ref "start-shutdown" >}})
4. [Troubleshooting]({{< ref "troubleshooting" >}})
5. [Secrets]({{< ref "secrets" >}})
6. [Publish to Connector Hub]({{< ref "publish" >}})
7. [Use Examples in Github]({{< ref "github-examples" >}})


### References

* [CDK Source code]


[CDK Source code]: https://github.com/infinyon/fluvio/tree/master/crates/cdk
