content/connectors/cdk/start-shutdown.md, before:

---
title: Start & Shutdown 
weight: 50
---

##### Prerequisites

This section assumes that CDK is [installed]({{< ref "install" >}}) and `my-connector` project has been [generated]({{< ref "generate" >}}).


### Connector start 

[Testing]({{<ref "/connectors/cdk/build-test#test---operation">}}) your connector runs the process in the foreground. 

When you are ready, you can run `cdk deploy start` to run your connector in the background.

%copy first-line%
```bash
$ cdk deploy start --config config-example.yaml 
Log file: /private/tmp/my-connector/my-connector.log
Connector runs with process id: 88589
```

{{<idea>}}
To start an official connector from a local `.ipkg` connector package file, you can provide it with the `--ipkg` option

Example:

%copy first-line%
```bash
$ cdk deploy start --ipkg infinyon-http-source-0.1.1.ipkg --config config-example.yaml
```
{{</idea>}}


### Connector shutdown

Conversely, when you want to stop running your connector, you can run `cdk deploy shutdown <connector name>` to stop the running process of your connector in background.

You can access the connector name from the [list of your running connectors]({{< ref "list-log" >}}), or you can find the connector `name` in your config file. 

{{<caution>}}
This command exits quietly
{{</caution>}}

1. [Install CDK]({{< ref "install" >}})
2. [Generate a SmartConnector]({{< ref "generate" >}})
3. [Build and Test]({{< ref "build-test" >}})
4. **[Start and Shutdown]({{< ref "start-shutdown" >}})**
5. [List and Logs]({{< ref "list-log" >}})
6. [Publish to SmartConnector Hub]({{< ref "publish" >}})

Commit message:

Add example for secrets with CDK

content/connectors/cdk/start-shutdown.md, after:

---
title: Start & Shutdown 
weight: 50
---

##### Prerequisites

This section assumes that CDK is [installed]({{< ref "install" >}}) and `my-connector` project has been [generated]({{< ref "generate" >}}).


### Connector start 

[Testing]({{<ref "/connectors/cdk/build-test#test---operation">}}) your connector runs the process in the foreground. 

When you are ready, you can run `cdk deploy start` to run your connector in the background.

%copy first-line%
```bash
$ cdk deploy start --config config-example.yaml 
Log file: /private/tmp/my-connector/my-connector.log
Connector runs with process id: 88589
```

{{<idea>}}
To start an official connector from a local `.ipkg` connector package file, you can provide it with the `--ipkg` option

Example:

%copy first-line%
```bash
$ cdk deploy start --ipkg infinyon-http-source-0.1.1.ipkg --config config-example.yaml
```
{{</idea>}}

#### Secrets

In order to use [secrets]({{ ref "/connectors/secrets" }}), you can use the `--secrets` flag to pass a file with the secrets definition.

##### Example:

%copy first-line%
```bash
$ cdk deploy start --config config-example.yaml --secrets secrets.txt
```

In the secrets file, you should define a secret per line in the format `SECRET_NAME=SECRET_VALUE`.

#####  Example:

%copy%
```
SECRET_NAME=SECRET_VALUE
SECRET_NAME_2=SUPER_SECRET_VALUE
```

### Connector shutdown

Conversely, when you want to stop running your connector, you can run `cdk deploy shutdown <connector name>` to stop the running process of your connector in background.

You can access the connector name from the [list of your running connectors]({{< ref "list-log" >}}), or you can find the connector `name` in your config file. 

{{<caution>}}
This command exits quietly
{{</caution>}}

1. [Install CDK]({{< ref "install" >}})
2. [Generate a SmartConnector]({{< ref "generate" >}})
3. [Build and Test]({{< ref "build-test" >}})
4. **[Start and Shutdown]({{< ref "start-shutdown" >}})**
5. [List and Logs]({{< ref "list-log" >}})
6. [Publish to SmartConnector Hub]({{< ref "publish" >}})
